# Distribution of Respiratory Exchange Rate (RER) by Demographics

## Rationale

We chose to focus on RER because it shows the carbohydrate-to-fat burn ratio, an interesting topic for many people interested in fitness and metabolism. We chose histograms as our primary visual encoding because they effectively display frequency distributions, making it easy for users to identify trends and variations in RER values across different subsets of the data. The choice of filters as our interaction technique was chosen by the need for simplicity and clarity, allowing users to easily segment the data by age, sex, weight, height, speed, and environmental factors. We considered other visualizations such as scatterplots, but these alternatives either introduced too much complexity or was not efficient in visualizing the distribution.

The data originally came in two separate csv files, one containing the information about each participant and another containing the information about the runs on treadmill. Then, the dataset were filtered out to only contain records with RER values between 0-1.5, as anything over 1.5 is considered to be barely possible even when intentionally hyperventilating under a clinical environment, and values under 0 is impossible. 

## Development Process

This project was a group effort with the work load spread evenly among individuals. Each brainstorming, data transformation, and design ideas and choices were made as a group throughout the iterative process of creating the interactive histogram. We began with a static histogram displaying all the data using RER as the x-axis. We then added a filter for one feature to start the interative process for the visualization. After making sure this worked, we added the rest of the features to filter the histogram by such as age, sex, weight, height, temperature, speed, and cooldown (whether or not the runner on the treadmill was at cooldown after running their max speed). We then added the x and y labels and adjusted the x-ticks to remain constant across all the filter changes. We also added transitions, so that the bars smoothly change with the change of the filters. Finally, after adding styling to make the filter dropdowns and selection a more smoother experience for the user, we added tooltips to show the information for the individual bars, such as bin range and count data, and we added information for the features in the filters to explain what they are in the context of the experimental data we extracted. 21 people hours led to the final version of the visualization and the aspect that took the most time was making the filters for each feature in the dataset for the interative histogram.
